{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15700\viewh15160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Paper Outline\
\

\f1\b Intro\
\
Marriage quality - \
\

\f0\b0 	With marriage rates steadily declining since the 1980s, it seems the societal perception surrounding this sociological institution in the United States may be shifting. Marriage carries a vast array of symbolic significance in American society. Marriage may be perceived as the ultimate culmination of a romantic relationship, a means of assuring financial stability for women with children, a religious tradition, or a legal obligation. The undeniable symbolic significance of marriage in the adult life course has made it a central area of sociological study. The study marriage is not insignificant, as successful marriages are associated with greater mental and physical health (CITATION) as well as increased happiness and support in adult life (CITATION). Understanding the factors effecting marital success is important in developing education programs and policy surrounding the institution of marriage into the future. \
	Marital success may be defined in relation to longevity as well as quality. Longevity simply refers to the length of time a couple stays together. Marriage quality, however, is a more complex concept to define. Numerous factors including perceived spousal support, happiness in a marriage, or strain inflicted by a parter may contribute to the quality of a marriage. One way of assessing marriage quality
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
  
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 assess the 
\f2\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
two relational dimensions of stress process theory, positive (support) and negative (strain) to define four typologies 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 . These typologies include supportive (high support, low strain) , ambivalent (high support, high strain), indifferent (low support, low strain), and aversive (low support, high strain) (CITATION). These typologies will be used to categorize marriage quality throughout this paper. \
	Sociological research has focused on several factors that influence the relationship quality and may be useful predictors of the success of a marriage. Two factors that have received such attention are age at marriage and personality synchronicity within the married couple. Research suggests that absolute age at marriage and whether someone marries within their individually determined \'91ideal marriage age\'92 (marriage paradigm) are predictors of success in long term marriages (CITATION - MARRIAGE AGE). Further, research indicates that personality synchronicity is an important factor in perceived marital support, especially in the personality characteristics of openness, aggreeablenes, and neuroticism (CITATION). The conclusions drawn from research on the success and quality of long term marriages is conceptualized in a case study interviewing a middle aged couple in a long term marriage. The qualitative results of this case study aligned with empirical findings that a supportive marriage typology is associated with positive mental/physical health and less loneliness in life. However, the interviewees disagreed that meeting the expectations of one\'92s marital paradigm and personality synchronicity were important aspects in a successful, long-term marriage. \

\f1\b \
\
Kelly and Jeff - \
\

\f0\b0 	The conclusions drawn from research on the success and quality of long term marriages is conceptualized in a case study interviewing a middle aged couple in a long term marriage. The interview subjects, Jeffery (59 years) and Kelly (60 years), married when they were 33 and 34 years old respectively and have been married for 24 years. The couple was interviewed separately and were asked ___ questions regarding their marriage history, attitude towards marriage, perceived support, and success of their marriage. The interview transcripts are included for reference in the appendix. There are several unique aspects to Jeffery and Kelly\'92s romantic history that diverge from a what may be viewed as a \'91traditional\'92 relationship course. The couple met in their mid twenties while attending university and dated for approximately 10 years, cohabitating for the later __ of that period. Both couples noted the primary driving factor in their decision to get married was Kelly\'92s pregnancy with their first child. Choosing to formally wed hinged on the desire to mitigate complications with custody and child support if they decided to separate in the future. Since then, Jeff and Kelly have parented three children aged eighteen, twenty-two, and twenty-four, and both classify their marriage as happy and successful. Another unusual attitude uncovered in the couple\'92s romantic history is their stark contrasting views on the importance of marriage. Kelly expressed a general positive attitude towards marriage grown up, saying she always anticipated marrying in her late twenties: \'93Biologically it made sense to get married at that time, then have a kid in your early 30s. Just biological calculations and how timing works out. I happened to date someone who did not believe in getting married.\'94 Her statements hint at Jeffrey\'92s negative perception of marriage. Growing up a child of divorce, Jeff expressed that \'93Marriage, for me, is an artificial construct that often overshadows your personal dedication to your life partner. I think marriage is more of a social pressure than anything.\'94 Despite these contradicting views on marriage, this couple agrees that their marriage has been a lasting and successful one, with both reporting high levels of happiness and perceived support in their current relationship. In the following sections, Jeff and Kelly\'92s reported perceptions of their long-term marriage will be compared to research surrounding marital success and quality to both validate and question empirical research in this subject. 
\f1\b \
\
Thesis: \
\

\f0\b0 Interviews were conducted with two married individuals to contextualize the findings of three research papers studying predictors of quality and happiness in long-term marriages. Three predictors of marital happiness were focused on in the interview process: marrying according to one\'92s marital paradigm, personality synchronicity within a marriage, and a supportive marital typology. The narrative results of this case study aligned with empirical findings that a supportive marriage typology is associated with positive mental/physical health and less loneliness in life. However, the interviewees disagreed that meeting the expectations of one\'92s marital paradigm and personality synchronicity were important aspects in a successful, long-term marriage. \
\

\f1\b \
Body\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Marital age and satisfaction\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f3\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If one is \'93on time\'94 based on one\'92s marital paradigm, then the relationship may be more successful because expectations are being met. If one is \'93off time\'94 based on one\'92s marital paradigm, this could lead to lower satisfaction and less stability because expectations are not being met. (1088)
\f2\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f3\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
For the NSFH data set, the happiest marriages were those married at 17 years and younger, followed by those married between 27 and 30 years (1101)
\f2\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f3\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
that there are contextual factors that affect relationship outcomes, rather than an absolute age at marriage that matters as Glenn et al. (2010) suggested. It is possible that differing expectations and experiences based on the historical time in which one lives change what consti- tutes an ideal age to marry (1103)\
\ls1\ilvl1
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}Symbolic interaction theory \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f3\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Willoughby et al.\'92s (2013) framework for marital paradigms. Marital timing is part of a set of beliefs about marriage, and these beliefs are shaped by cultural and historical influences. (1103)
\f2\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f3\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NSFH data set suggested that birth cohort was significantly associated for both those who remained married and those who divorced. (1102)\
\ls1\ilvl1
\f2\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}
\f3\fs26\fsmilli13333 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Findings indicated there is no clear-cut distinction in age at marriage and its impact on marital satisfaction, suggesting one\'92s relational experience is affected by a multitude of factors (1101)
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1.	}Personality synchronicity - \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up13  
\f2\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \up0 Department of Psychology, University of Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. 
\f1\b\fs24 \up13 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f2\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
However, with the excep- tion of openness to experience, couples in the present study did not show similar overall change in personality across the study. (38-39)\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
couples experience similar patterns of variability relative to their own levels over time. (39)\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Higher similarity parameters for the traits of openness, agreeableness, and neuroticism were associated with greater perceived spousal support. (39)
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}Marital quality and loneliness later in life\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Marriage Typology: \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Yingling Liu\up13 1 \up0 and Laura Upenieks\up13 1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f2\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The first approach takes the two relational dimensions of stress process theory, positive (support) and negative (strain) aspects of marital quality, and includes them as separate constructs (Liu & Waite, 2014; Umberson et al., 2006). 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f2\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
We adopt a stress-process life course perspective and rely on two waves of panel data from the National Social 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Life, Health, and Aging Project (NSHAP) to test our hypotheses. The use of longitudinal data allows us to examine whether marital quality has associations with health and well-being 
\fs24 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}I
\f2\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
n alignment with the linked lives principle of the life course, which suggests that spousal relationship takes on increasing importance with age, our first key finding was that older adults in aversive marriages tended to have worse health over time compared to those in supportive marriages. This result was documented for both happiness and self-rated health for men, and happiness only for women. (434)
\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Loneliness: \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ning Hsieh\up13 1 \up0 and Louise Hawkley\up13 2 
\f2\b0 \up0 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f2\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Actor\'96partner interdependence models showed that positive and negative marital qualities synergistically predict couple loneliness. Spouses in aversive marriages are lonelier than their supportively married counterparts (actor effect), and that marital aversion increases the loneliness of their partners (partner effect) 
\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f2\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
about one in six older married men and women report moderate or intense feelings of loneliness (de Jong Gierveld & Broese van Groenou, 2016). (1320)
\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f2\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
older marital partners may experience the strain of a small and shrinking social network that leaves them more reliant on each other, with little or no buffering social relationships to minimize their experience of negativity in the marriage  (1321)\
\ls1\ilvl1
\fs24 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In sum, social and health transitions in older age can increase stress and diminish marital quality, leaving the door open to feelings of disconnectedness, isolation, and loneliness. (1321)
\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This gender dif- ference suggests that in heterosexual marriages, women may more highly value the supportive traits than the undemanding/uncritical traits of a spouse. In contrast, men in heterosexual marriages may value high support and low strain more equally and may not feel lonely as long as the spouse is either supportive or undemanding and uncritical. (1332)
\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f4 \uc0\u8259 
\f2 	}
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In general, marital quality aligned with family and friend relationship quality. Those in a supportive marriage tended to also have supportive family and friend relationships, whereas those in an aversive marriage were more likely to have aversive family and friend relationships. (1327)
\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Conclusion}