{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12480\viewh14880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Blurb: \
\
Sourdough is one of the great rabbit holes that most bakers are bound to go down. Whether it\'92s a quarantine obsession or something that becomes part of a weekly practice, there is something about creating bread from three simple ingredients, flour, water, and salt, that is tantalizing. I will be there first to admit that I am likely years and thousands of trials away from perfecting my sourdough loaf. However, If you are looking for a guide on how to make sourdough, I recommend this recipe from the renowned bakery Taratine, or Claire Saffitz\'92s wonderful video. This post is simply my ratios and technique for making my most recent exploration into the world of flavored sourdoughs. This loaf is made unique by the incorperation of a mixture of za\'92atar (a 
\f1\i deliciousssss 
\f0\i0 mediteranian spice blend) and oil into the bread. To incorporate za\'92atar into the loaf, I used a lamination technique. After adding the starter and salt to the dough, I let it sit for 30 minutes, then flatten it in a thin layer on the counter. I spread the oil over that layer, then fold the dough onto itself to incorporate the oil. From there, I continue on to the bulk fermentation phase. Here is a great guide for laminating sourdough. \
\
Ingredients: \
(For 2 loaves)\
- 500 g bread flour\
- 400 g all purpose flour\
- 100 g whole wheat flour\
- 790 g water (79% hydration)\
- 200 g ripe sourdough starter\
- 20 g salt\
- 1/2 cup za\'92atarr \
- 3 tbsp olive oil\
\
Directions: \
(I\'92ve included my baking schedule for reference)\
7:30 AM - feed sourdough starter\
11:30 AM - mix flours and 770 g water, cover to autolyse\
12:30 PM - pinch in sourdough starter then add salt and water. Mix vigorously to fully combine. Slap and fold until bread is smooth (ish) and there is noticeable gluten development. \
1:15 PM - combine za\'92atar and oil to create a spreadable paste. Divide dough in half and laminate each with 1/2 of the za\'92atar mixture. \
1:15 - 6:00 PM - bulk ferment. Perform 3 coil folds spaced 30 minutes apart within the first three hours of bulk fermentation\
6:00 PM - shape loaves and transfer to bowls with flour dusted tea towels. Place in refrigerator to proof overnight. \
- Loaves shaped using the thirds method. Spread dough into a rectangle, fold the dough over itself in thirds, then roll from the far end of the dough to create a tight loaf. Let sit for a few minutes on the seam, then transfer seam side up into the prepared shaping bowl. \
\
Next Morning: Bake at 500\'b0F in a covered dutch oven for 25 minutes with ~2 ice cubes, then uncovered at 475\'b0 for 25 minutes until deep brown. Cool completely before slicing. \
\
\
\
\
\
}