{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Blurb: \
I love loafs. Give me a pumpkin, banana, or zucchini bread, and I\'92m a happy gal. I just love the moisture that a bread like this has. Add browned butter, olive oil, and chocolate chips, and there is pretty much nothing you can do that will make this loaf taste less than amazing. This recipe is fast and easy. If you want a more developed flavor, make the batter up until adding the chocolate chips, then refrigerate overnight. Then next morning, add the chocolate and bake. You can also omit the granola crumble toping to further simplify the recipe. Honestly, as I said, there isn\'92t lot you could do that would ruin this recipe, it\'92s just that good. \
\
Ingredients: \
- 185 g grated zucchini\
- 140 g light brown sugar\
- 50 g butter\
- 30 ml olive oil\
- 80 ml plain greek yogurt or sour cream \
- 2 large eggs\
- 1 tsp vanilla \
- 190 g all-purpose flour\
- 1/2 tsp salt \
1/2 tsp baking soda\
1/2 tsp baking powder\
1 1/2 tsp ground cinnamon\
1/4 tsp ground nutmeg\
1 tsp grated lemon zest\
1/2 tsp fresh grated ginger\
1/3 cup coarsely chopped chocolate\
\
granola crumble: \
1/4 cup all-purpose flour\
1/4 cup old-fashioned rolled oats\
1 tbsp brown sugar\
1/4 tsp cinnamon\
1/4 tsp kosher salt\
3 tbsp cold butter\
\
\
Direction: \
\
Heat oven to 350\'b0F. Butter an 8-inch loaf pan and line with parchment paper. \
\
Brown the butter in a skillet over medium heat. Transfer to a liquid measuring cup and fill with oil to reach 80 ml total. In a medium bowl, mix together zucchini, sugar, olive oil and butter, yogurt, eggs, and vanilla extract. \
\
Whisk together flour, salt, baking soda, baking powder, lemon zest, and spices. Gently fold the dry into the wet ingredients and mix until just combined. Combine the chopped chocolate with ~ 1tsp flour and toss to coat. This will prevent the chocolate from sinking to the bottom of the pan when you bake the loaf. Gently fold the chocolate into the batter. Transfer to the prepared baking pan. \
\
To make the granola crumble: combine the flour, oats, sugar, cinnamon, and salt. Add the butter and press with finger tips until the crumbs holds together and has the texture of wet sand. Sprinkle over top of the loaf pan. \
\
Bake until a toothpick inserted into the middle of the loaf comes out clean, about 40-55 minutes. Cool, slice, and enjoy. \
}