{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red202\green202\blue202;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c83137\c83137\c83137;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww8560\viewh10000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Blurb: \
\
These ginger cookies are spicy. Fresh ginger and black pepper give these chewy ginger cookies a legit bite that is so satisfying if you enjoy a strong spice flavor. 50 g of fresh ginger feels like a lot, but it\'92s absolutely worth it. My cookies spread a bit more than I would have liked because I left them in the oven slightly too long. The 10 minutes is a guide, but not an end all be all timing. Keep an eye on the cookies as they bake and pull them before they flatten too much. \
\
\
Ingredients: \
\
200 g unsalted butter\
50 g finely grated fresh ginger\
1 tbsp ground ginger\
2 tsp ground cinnamon\
1 tsp freshly ground black pepper\
1/2 tsp freshly grated nutmeg\
240 g confectioners sugar\
3 tbsp molasses\
1 tbsp vanilla extract\
1 1/4 tsp kosher salt (Diamond Crystal)\
1 tsp baking soda\
1 egg, room temperature\
250 g all-purpose flour\
50 g granulated sugar\
2 tsp ground ginger\
\
Direcitons:	\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Brown the butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Once the butter has a nutty aroma and the floating specks are brown, transfer to a bowl and mix in the fresh ginger and ground spices. Let cool to room temperature. I cool the bowl in the fridge or use an ice bath to speed along the process. 
\f1 \cf4 \cb1 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Add confectioners sugar, molasses, vanilla, salt, and baking soda to the butter. Using an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, mix on low until creamy and combined, ~ 1 minute. Add the egg and mix on medium speed until pale and fluffy, ~ 2 minutes. Add the flour and mix on low until just combined. Cover the dough and chill for at least 2 hours but preferably overnight. \
\
Preheat the oven to 350\'b0F. In a small bowl stir together the 50 g granulated sugar and 2 tsp ground ginger. Using a 2-tablespoon cookie scoop or measuring 30 g each, divide the cookie dough into balls. Roll each ball in the sugar coating and arrange on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Bake until set and lightly browned, about 10 minutes. Cool and enjoy!
\f1 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 \
}