{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red60\green64\blue68;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c30196\c31765\c33725;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Chocolate Chip Cookies\
\
Blurb: \
\
There is something magical that happens when you brown butter. It takes pretty much any baked good to another level. The nuttiness of the butter gives these cookies an amazing depth of flavor that allows them to rise above your typical chocolate chip cookie recipe. I have three more things are easy and improve the quality of a chocolate chip cookie. The first is to use brown sugar. Brown sugar caramelizes when it bakes, need I say more? Second, chill the bater for AT LEAST 4 hours before you bake them. The cold temperature allows the butter and sugar to emulsify. This combination is what caramelizes in the oven and provides a punch of rich flavor. Last, finish the cookies with a sprinkle of sea salt. The salt cuts through the sugar and is non negotiable when it comes to cookies and brownies. \
\
Ingredients: \
2 (227g) stick unsalted butter \
2 tbsp heavy cream, half-and-half, or whole milk\
2 cups (260g) all-purpose flour \
2 tsp baking soda\
3/4 cup (150g) packed dark brown sugar\
2 large eggs, cold \
1 tbsp vanilla extract\
5 oz. (142g) bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped\
5 ox. (142g) milk chocolate, coarsely chopped\
\
Recipe\
\
Brown the butter in a saucepan over medium heat. Bring the butter to a simmer, stirring constantly until the butter takes on a deep amber color and smells nutty. Specs of butter fats will separate out of solution and appear brown in color. Transfer the butter to a bowl, add the cream, then stir over an ice bath until the mixture has cooled to room temperature. \
\
Mix the dry ingredients together in a medium sized mixing bowl. \
\
Add the sugars to the bowl containing the butter. Whisk vigorously until the mixture is smooth. Add the eggs one at a time and mix until fully combined and satiny. Add the flour and mix until just combined then fold in the chocolate chips. \
\
Allow the mixture to firm in the fridge for a few minutes. Scoop 2 oz. (1/4 cup) balls onto a parchment lines baking sheet. Cover with plastic wrap and chill the dough for at least 4 but up to 48 hours. When ready to bake, preheat the oven to 350\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'b0F. The cookies will spread when they bake so make sure to limit the dough to 6 cookies per sheet. Bake until the cookies are golden brown, about 15 minutes, rotating halfway through. When you remove the cookies, sprinkle with salt and allow to cool slightly before transferring to a wire rack. }