{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red56\green56\blue56;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c28235\c28235\c28235;\csgray\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11660\viewh14300\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Blurb\
\
Here it is. My second attempt at croissants, and boy have some improvements been made. I made some significant changes to the proofing schedule and size of this batch. The result was a very flakey and large croissant. I\'92ll go ahead and dive into the pros and cons for this attempt. \
\
Positives\
- Good rise\
- Distinct, flakey layers\
- Browning on the outside\
- Buttery flavor\
\
\
Improvements/notes for next time\
- Still no honeycomb!\
- Some butter breakage during lamination. \
- Dough was very difficult to roll out. \
\
Ingredients\
- 605 g bread flour\
- 66 g granulate sugar\
- 12 g kosher salt\
- 7 g active dry yeast\
- 214 g room temperature water\
- 120 g room temperature whole milk\
- 57 g chilled, diced unsalted butter\
- 340 g \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 butter with high butter fat (at least 84%) for lamination\
- egg wash: one egg whisked with a splash of milk\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
\cb1 \
Method: \
\
Recipe: Clair Saffitz New York Times Croissant Recipe\
\
Butter: Plugra, 220 g\
\
Flour: King Arthur bread flour\
\
Mix dough: Mix all dough ingredients except butter until a shaggy dough forms, cover with a damp towel and set aside for 10 minutes. Add butter pieces mixing on medium-low speed. Mix on medium speed until a stretchy, elastic dough forms (8-10 minutes).\
\
1st proof: Form dough into a ball. Allow to rise for 45 minutes to an hour at room temperature. Transfer dough to the refrigerator and chill for 4 hours. \
\
Lamination: 3 single turns with 20 minutes chilling in between. Make sure to seal the dough before rolling out and allow to sit for 5 minutes after removing form the fridge. Otherwise, the butter will break when you try to roll it out. \
\
\
Shaping: \
- Roll the dough into a baking sheet sized slab. Transfer to a baking sheet, cover with plastic wrap, freeze for 20 minutes, then chill overnight. \
- Remove from the fridge and allow to sit at room temperature for 5 minutes. Use a wheel cutter to cut 4 4x14-inch rectangles. \
- Cut each rectangle across the diagonal to create 8 triangles. \
- Extend the base and tip of each croissant, then roll onto itself and transfer tip down onto a parchment lined baking sheet. Arrange 4 croissant per baking sheet. \
\
\
2nd proof: Cover croissants with plastic wrap. Proof in a humid, 70-75 degree oven for 2-2.5 hours until they have doubled in size. Remove from the oven and egg wash, then transfer to the refrigerator to chill for 20 minutes while the oven preheats to 375\'b0F. \
\
Bake: Remove croissants from the refrigerator. Egg wash a second time before transferring to the oven. Bake for 20 minutes, rotate pans, then bake for another 10-15 minutes until croissants are deeply brown. \
\
}