{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19700\viewh15020\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Blurb: \
\
Making cookie boxes brings in the holiday spirit. Baking in the kitchen with my family, experimenting with new recipes, putting together beautiful boxes, and gifting yummy baked goods. It\'92s the best way to experience Christmas. This year, I made five different holiday cookies. My best advice to manage taking on that many recipes is to plan ahead and chill dough overnight. I made a list of ingredients and bulk bought everything beforehand. Then, I made the doughs the day before I planned on baking and assembling and chilled them in the fridge overnight. This spaces out the baking process and gives the dough time to develop flavor and structure. Next, I planned which cookies baked at the same oven temperature and consolidated the wait time by baking multiple cookies at a time. Finally, I chose cookies that were visually beautiful but sturdy and wouldn\'92t go bad quickly. Only one of my cookies (the linezrs) required an assembly step. This ensured I wasn\'92t spending hours piping and decorating cookies that would go stale quickly. My favorites this year were the marbled shortbread cookies (they just look so cool) and the, of course, the peanut butter blossoms. Here are links to each recipe I used in my boxes: \
\
marbled shortbread\
peanut butter blossoms\
bronwn butter spiced linzer cookies\
chewy ginger cookies\
pistachio pinwheels\
}