{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Blurb: \
Sometimes perfection is achieved early and can simply not be improved upon. That is the case with the Hershey peanut butter blossom cookies. My family makes with recipe for Christmas every year. We usually make one batch, eat them all in one night, then make a double batch to share with our friends. Normally I am not a fan of shortening in cookie recipes or super sugary peanut butters, but in this case you simply must trust the recipe and reap the sweet sweet benefits. I cannot stress enough how much I love this cookie and the perfect combination of chocolate peanut butter goodness. \
\
Ingredients: \
48 unwrapped hershey\'92s kisses\
1/2 cup shortening\
3/4 cup jiffy peanut butter\
1/3 cup granulated sugar\
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar\
1 egg, room temperature\
2 tbsp milk\
1 tsp vanilla extract\
1 1/2 cup all-purpose flour\
1 tsp baking soda\
1/2 tsp salt\
1/3 cup granulated sugar for rolling\
\
Directions: \
\
Preheat oven to 375\'b0F. \
\
Using an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat shortening and peanut butter on medium speed until smooth. Add the sugars and beat on medium-high until light and fluffy. Add egg, milk, and vanilla and beat until combined. \
\
Combine the flour, baking soda, and salt. Add to the dough and mix on low until just combined. \
\
Shape the dough into 1-inch balls and roll in granulated sugar. Bake on a parchment lined baking sheet until lightly browned, ~8-10 minutes. Remove from the oven and immediately press Hershey kisses into the center of each cookie. Enjoy, I love these the most when they\'92re still warm and the chocolate is melty. \
}