{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11660\viewh14300\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Blurb: \
\
These pop tarts aren\'92t really pop tarts. I\'92d say they more closely resemble a turnover or a danish, but pop tarts are just so much more fun. So they are being called pop tarts, just like a pop tart\'92s older, elegant sister. To make these bad boys, you start by making puff pastry. If these are the older sister of pop tarts, then puff pastry is the younger sister of croissant dough. It still intimidates people because you have to laminate butter into the dough, but it\'92s much easier to handle than a croissant dough because there is no yeast or proofing necessary. Once you make the puff pastry, you make a jam from strawberries and blood orange juice (or any fresh fruit that is in season and seems like it will make a yummy preserve). Fill the puff pastry with jam, bake for a bit, and top with glaze. Then, what have you got? A delicious, flakey, graceful dessert. Seriously, the combination of buttery puff pastry with fresh strawberry preserve is dangerous. \
\
Ingredients: \
(makes 7 pop tarts)\
\
Puff Pastry:\
1 tsp salt\
125 ml water\
250 g bread flour\
2 tbsp butter, melted and cooled\
200 g European style butter, preferable 84% butterfat or higher\
Egg wash: 1 egg whisked with a splash of butter\
\
Strawberry Blood Orange Preserve: \
500 g fresh strawberries\
300 g granulated sugar\
1/4 cup blood orange juice\
\
Strawberry Glaze:\
200 g powdered sugar\
1-2 tbsp milk\
1-2 tbsp strawberry blood orange preserve (from above)\
\
Candied blood oranges: \
2 blood oranges, sliced into 1/4-inch thick rounds\
100 g sugar\
160 g water\
\
Directions: \
\
Puff Pastry: \
\
Combine all ingredients in a mixing bowl and combine to form a dough. Cut a criss cross pattern across the dough to relax it, then refrigerate for at least 20 minutes, but up to overnight. Meanwhile, shape the 200 g butter into a square. \
\
Roll out the dough to be twice as long as the butter block. Place the butter in the center of the dough and fold either end up to seal the butter. Give the dough 4 single turns, refrigerating for 30 minutes between each two turns (this yields 5 turns total). Chill the dough for 30-40 minutes before using. \
\
Strawberry Blood Orange Preserve: \
\
Place all the ingredients into a heavy bottomed pot with a good amount of space between the ingredients and the top of the pot. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring and mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon. Reduce heat to medium low and allow to cook until the jam reaches 220\'b0F and sets when spooned onto a chilled plate. This will take about 15 minutes, so be patient. During this period, use an immersion blender to fully puree the fruits and remove any strawberry lumps from the mixture. Transfer to a jar or other container and place in refrigerator to cool and set completely before use. \
\
Candied blood oranges: \
\
Bring sugar and water to boil in a wide saucepan over medium heat. Add the blood orange slices in a single layer across the bottom of the pan. Lower heat so the mixture simmers for 20-30 minutes. Spoon the slices from the pan onto a wire cooling rack and allow to dry until firm for 24 hours. \
\
Assembly: \
\
Roll puff pastry into a rectangle measuring 10 x 21 inches. Trim excess from edges to create a neat rectangle, then divide the dough into 7 rectangles measuring 5 x 3 inches. These are the dimensions of an index card, so it may be useful to use an index card as a template when dividing your pastry. \
\
Transfer half of the rectangles onto parchment lined baking sheets and spoon 1-2 tablespoons of preserve into the middle. Careful not to overfill, as the jam will spill from the pastry in the oven. Top each with a second rectangle. Use a fork to crimp each pop tart closed, egg wash the tops, and cut 3 vents across the top of each with a pairing knife. Transfer to the fridge to cool while the oven preheats to 375\'b0F.\
\
Once the oven has preheated, egg wash the pastries a second time before transferring to the oven. Bake until the pastry has separated and the tops are a deep, golden brown. Allow to cool completely while you mix the glaze to a spoonable consistency. Top each cooled pop tart with strawberry glaze and a candied blood orange, then enjoy!\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}